Getting Started with Google Kubernetes Engine

Kubernetes is an orchestration framework for software containers. 
Containers are a way to package and run code that's more efficient than virtual machines. 
Kubernetes provides the tools you need to run containerized applications in production and at scale.

Virtualization:
	Virtualization is the process of creating a virtual version of a physical resource, such as a server, storage device, or network.
	The software layer that breaks the dependencies of an operating system on the underlying hardware and allows several virtual machines to share that hardware is called a a hypervisor.
	Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) is one well-known hypervisor.
	However, an application, all its dependencies, and operating system are still bundled together.
	But running multiple applications within a single VM creates another problem: applications that share dependencies are not isolated from each other.


Containers:
	You don’t have to virtualize the entire machine, or even the entire operating system–just the user space.
	The user space = code = it includes applications and their dependencies.
	Containers are lightweight because they don’t carry a full operating system, they just start and stop operating system processes and do not boot an entire VM or initialize an operating system for each application.
	(check "D:\Vishal\Technical\GCP\Associate-Engg\VM-KVM-Container-gVisor.jpg")
	
	What is significant about the topmost layer in a container?
		The topmost layer's contents are ephemeral. When the container is deleted, the contents are lost.
		An application running in a container can only modify the topmost layer.
		
Image vs Container:
		An application and its dependencies are called an image, and a container is simply a running instance of an image.

Docker:
		One of the options to build and run container images
		doesn’t offer a way to orchestrate those applications at scale like Kubernetes does.
		
Dockerfile:
			FROM
			COPY
			RUN
			CMD

Linux technologies:
	A container has the power to isolate workloads, and this ability comes from a combination of several Linux technologies.
		Linux process - own virtual memory address spaces
		Linux namespaces - control what an application can see, such as process ID numbers, directory trees, IP addresses, etc.
		Linux cgroups - control what application can use - max cpu time, memory, i/o bandwidth
		Union file systems - to bundle everything needed into a neat package.

Artifact Registry
		Google maintains Artifact Registry at pkg.dev, which contains public, open source images. It also provides Google Cloud customers with a place to store their own container images.

Cloud Build
		Google provides a managed service for building containers called Cloud Build.
		To generate a build with Cloud Build, you must define a series of steps- fetch dependencies, compile source code, run integration tests, or use tools such as Docker, Gradle, and Maven
		Each build step in Cloud Build runs in a Docker container.
		From there, Cloud Build can deliver the newly built images to various execution environments including Google Kubernetes Engine, App Engine, and Cloud Run functions.
		
		1. 
		gcloud artifacts repositories create quickstart-docker-repo --repository-format=docker --location=us-east1 --description="Docker repository"
		
		2. 
		Dockerfile:
		FROM alpine
		COPY quickstart.sh /
		CMD ["/quickstart.sh"]
		
		3.
		gcloud builds submit --tag us-east1-docker.pkg.dev/${DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID}/quickstart-docker-repo/quickstart-image:tag1
		
		or
		2.
		cloudbuild.yaml : 
		steps:
		- name: 'gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker'
		  args: [ 'build', '-t', 'us-east1-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT_ID/quickstart-docker-repo/quickstart-image:tag1', '.' ]
		images:
		- 'us-east1-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT_ID/quickstart-docker-repo/quickstart-image:tag1'

		3.
		gcloud builds submit --config cloudbuild.yaml
	

Kubernetes:	
	Kubernetes is an open source platform for managing containerized workloads and services.
	It makes it easy to orchestrate many containers on many hosts, scale them as microservices, and easily deploy rollouts and rollbacks.
	At the highest level, Kubernetes is a set of APIs that you can use to deploy containers on a set of nodes called a cluster.
	The system is divided into a set of primary components that run as the control plane and a set of nodes that run containers.
	In Kubernetes, a node represents a computing instance, like a machine.

	You can describe a set of applications and how they should interact with each other, and Kubernetes determines how to make that happen.
	Kubernetes supports declarative and imperative configurations - config and commands

	Desired state(manifest yaml) and control pane (run and monitor like a thermostat) 


Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) - deploy, manage, scale
	Fully managed k8 service, 
	A container-optimized operating system is used to run workloads. Google maintains these operating systems, which are optimized to scale quickly with a minimal resource footprint.
	Integrates with - cloud build, IAM, Observability
	GKE Autopilot- Google Kubernetes Engine offers a mode of operation called GKE Autopilot, which is designed to manage your cluster configuration, like nodes, scaling, security, and other preconfigured settings.
	
	Cluster - When you use GKE, you start by directing the service to create and set up a Kubernetes
	The GKE auto-upgrade feature ensures that clusters are always upgraded with the latest stable version of Kubernetes.
	
	Node - The virtual machines that host containers in a GKE cluster are called nodes. 
		auto-repairs by periodic health checks, nodes determined to be unhealthy are drained and recreated.
		
	
	
K8 Object - Object spec (defines desired state), Object status(current state provided by control plane)
Each object represents a certain type, or “kind,” as it’s referred to in Kubernetes.



Pod -
Every running container in a Kubernetes system is in a Pod.
Pods are the foundational building block of the standard Kubernetes model, and they’re the smallest deployable Kubernetes object.
A Pod creates the environment where the containers live, and that environment can accommodate one or more containers.
If there is more than one container in a Pod, they are tightly coupled and share resources, like networking and storage.
Kubernetes assigns each Pod a unique IP address, and every container within a Pod shares the network namespace, including IP address and network ports.
Containers within the same Pod can communicate through localhost, 127.0.0.1.
A Pod can also specify a set of storage volumes that will be shared among its containers.

Control pane -
	kube-APIserver - auth req, manages admission control , communicates with etcd
	kubectl command - connect and communicate kube-APIserver using k8 apis. 
	etcd - store db, 
	kube-scheduler - schedules pods on node 
	kube-controller-manager - watch , achieves the desired state 
	GKE manages all the control plane components for us.

Node -
	Each node runs a small family of control-plane components called a kubelet.
	Node configuration and management depends on the type of GKE mode you use.
With the Autopilot mode, which is recommended, GKE manages the underlying infrastructure such as node configuration, autoscaling, auto-upgrades, baseline security configurations, and baseline networking configuration.
With the Standard mode, you manage the underlying infrastructure, including configuring the individual nodes - You require SSH access to nodes.


You want to deploy multiple copies of an application in an effort to load balance traffic. How should you deploy Pods to production to achieve this?

Create a deployment manifest that specifies the number of replicas that you want to run.
D:\Vishal\Technical\GCP\Associate-Engg\Deployment-manifest-example.yaml


kubectl - The configuration information is stored in the $HOME/.kube/config file.
kubectl is a utility used by administrators to control Kubernetes clusters. It’s used to communicate with the Kube API server on the control plane.
4 parts - the command, the type, the name, and optional flags.
kubectl get pod my-test-app -o=yaml

common commands - get, describe, exec, logs

pod phases - Pending, Runnning, Succeeded, Failed, Unknown, CrashLoopBackOff 

kubectl exec demo -- ls 

lab:
gcloud container clusters create-auto $my_cluster --region $my_region

gcloud container clusters get-credentials $my_cluster --region $my_region

nano ~/.kube/config

kubectl config view
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config use-context gke_${DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID}_us-central1_autopilot-cluster-1

enable bash autocompletion for kubectl: source <(kubectl completion bash)
kubectl <double Tab> to see the list of command 


kubectl create deployment --image nginx nginx-1

kubectl get pods 
kubectl describe pod $my_nginx_pod

In Cloud Shell, execute the following command to place the file into the appropriate location within the nginx container in the nginx Pod to be served statically:
	kubectl cp ~/test.html $my_nginx_pod:/usr/share/nginx/html/test.html


Command to create a service to expose our nginx Pod externally: 
	kubectl expose pod $my_nginx_pod --port 80 --type LoadBalancer


kubectl get services


kubectl apply -f ./new-nginx-pod.yaml

